Add doc for Octopus Deploy (#1823)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/guides/continuous-delivery/octopus-deploy.md

## Sample Project

For the sake of this walkthrough, we will try to deploy the simple AWS example located [here](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/aws-ts-hello-fargate). The example deploys a containerized Python Flask app on [AWS Fargate](https://aws.amazon.com/fargate/). This example also shows a pattern that is common with Pulumi -- keeping your infrastructure app (Pulumi) with your actual application code, but certainly not necessary. Regardless of how you decide to structure your project, you will need to provide the package to Octopus somehow.

## Stack and Branch Mappings

The steps below act on a hypothetical stack: `my-org/my-project/aws-ts-hello-fargate`.
You can create a new stack by running [`pulumi stack init`]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_stack_init.md" >}}) from the folder containing the `Pulumi.yaml` file.

**Note**: The names used above are purely for demonstration purposes only.
You may choose a naming convention that best suits your organization.

## Octopus Setup

### Infrastructure

> Infrastructure in Octopus is represented as environments, deployment targets and workers (tentacles or SSH machines). You could think of each environment as representing one of your Pulumi stacks. For example, if you are creating cloud infrastructure that represents your dev, staging and prod environments, each of those would typically map to a [Pulumi stack](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack/), and hence you could create an Octopus environment for each of those.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure in Octopus is represented as environments, deployment targets and workers (tentacles or SSH machines.) You could think of each environment as representing one of your Pulumi stacks. For example, if you are creating cloud infrastructure that represents your dev, staging and prod environments, each of those would typically map to a [Pulumi stack](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack/) and you could create an Octopus environment for each of those.
```

In a typical scenario where Pulumi is creating your cloud infrastructure, you will only need to a worker that can run the Pulumi CLI commands against your code package.

### Project

> A project represents the application being deployed. A project uses versioned packages (which you will read about in the following section) and uses variables during the deployment process. A project also contains a deployment process which is a series of steps that are associated with "deploying" your project. A project can contain the actual runtime application (a Go service, or a Python Flask app etc.), as well as the infrastructure it requires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A project represents the application being deployed and uses versioned packages (detailed below) as well as variables, during the deployment process. A project also contains a deployment process, which is a series of steps that are associated with "deploying" your project. Projects can contain the actual runtime application (a Go service, or a Python Flask app, etc.), as well as any infrastructure required.
```

### Packages

Packages can be your source code bundled-up in one of the [supported formats](https://octopus.com/docs/packaging-applications#supported-formats). They can also just be a handlful of scripts that you may want to use during your deployment process.

In order to create a package, Octopus offers several ways that you can integrate into your existing build (CI) system. [Learn more](https://octopus.com/docs/packaging-applications/create-packages) about the options available to you for packaging your apps.

For Pulumi apps, you can simply package the entire Pulumi app and extract the bundled package onto a worker where the Pulumi CLI can access them.

## Deployment Process

> In order to create an [Octopus deployment process](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process), project variables need to be configured for each of the environments which

Reviewer: don't leave me hanging!

(seriously, some text got chopped off after "which")

> In order to create an [Octopus deployment process](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process), project variables need to be configured for each of the environments which

Author: ```suggestion
In order to create an [Octopus deployment process](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process), project variables need to be configured for each of the environments which maps to a Pulumi stack. Each Pulumi stack could use environment-specific configuration. For example, each stack (or environment) could be deployed using different cloud credentials. So at a minimum you would need to configure those credentials needed for deploying a Pulumi stack.
```

> In order to create an [Octopus deployment process](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process), project variables need to be configured for each of the environments which maps to a Pulumi stack. Each Pulumi stack could use environment-specific configuration. For example, each stack (or environment) could be deployed using different cloud credentials. So at a minimum you would need to configure those credentials needed for deploying a Pulumi stack.

Author: Looks like I realized mid-way through the sentence that I need to write about how about Octopus environments map to Pulumi stacks and didn't come back to finish what I wanted to write here. Finished my thought now, though :)

For other cloud providers, you will need to add the account credentials directly as a project variable using the appropriate built-in variable type.

Variables can be scoped right down to the environment that can access them. For sensitive strings, be sure to set the right scopes so that the account credentials are not accidentally used by the wrong environments.

#### PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN
To run Pulumi commands non-interactively, you will need to set the env var `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` as a [project variable](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process/variables). To create a new access token, go the [Access Tokens](https://app.pulumi.com/account/tokens) page on the Pulumi Console.

### Create the Process

A process consists of the steps to execute in a project. The following sections outline the steps for configuring your process in order to use Pulumi to deploy infrastructure (not be confused with Octopus Infrastructure).

> #### Extract the code package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Extract the Code Package
```

![Add Package Reference](/images/docs/guides/continuous-delivery/octopus-deploy/run-pulumi.png)

To deploy a package, create a release from the latest package using the appropriate package feed and deploy it to an environment.
To do that, click on **Releases** under the **Projects** tab and click on **Create Release**, and follow the on-screen instructions.

## Additional Information

### Manual Intervention Steps
Since Octopus Deploy is a _deployment_ automation server it does not inherit the capabilities of a traditional VCS wherein you have Pull Request or Push builds. With Pulumi modifying your infrastructure, you may be interested in running `pulumi preview` first, then run `pulumi up` but only if the `preview` looks right to you. One way to do this is, to add a [Manual Intervention and Approval Step](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process/steps/manual-intervention-and-approvals). With this step, you can effectively pause the deployment of your infrastructure changes until someone has signed-off on it. This is desirable in a team-based environment where several members might be making changes.

### Variable Sets

> We showed you at a high-level how you could use Project Variables to inject sensitive values in to your deployment process. Octopus Deploy also supports [Variable Sets](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process/variables/library-variable-sets) which are variables that are common across deployment environments. Variable Sets can be scoped just like regular Project-specific variables. [Learn more](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process/variables) about all of the ways you can make use of the rich configuration system in Octopus Deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to Project Variables, Octopus Deploy also supports [Variable Sets](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process/variables/library-variable-sets) which are variables that are common across deployment environments. Variable Sets can be scoped just like regular Project-specific variables. [Learn more](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process/variables) about all of the ways you can make use of the rich configuration system in Octopus Deploy.
```

---
title: Octopus Deploy

menu:
    userguides:
        parent: cont_delivery

>         weight: 1

Reviewer 2: Is this weight correct? Are all CI/CD docs given the same weight, and then sorted alphabetically? Or do we manually set the weights so that the pages are in some fixed, ordering?

Author: Yes, all of the docs are given a weight of 1 except for the `Other` doc, which talks about a yet-to-be added CI doc.

---

> [Octopus Deploy](https://octopus.com) is a deployment automation server, designed to make it easy to orchestrate releases and deploy applications, whether on-premises or in the cloud. Octopus is unlike a traditional CI system. In fact, Octopus is not a CI system. However, it can integrate with your existing build pipeline and integrate with several of your existing CI systems, like Jenkins, TeamCity, Azure DevOps etc.

Reviewer 2: This sounds odd:
"Octopus is unlike a traditional CI system. In fact, Octopus is not a CI system. However, it can integrate..."

 How about,

"Unlike a traditional CI system, Octopus can integrate with your existing pipeline and integrate with your existing CI systems. Such as Jenkins, TeamCity, Azure DevOps, etc. Octopus does <specific thing separate from a prototypical CI/CD system>."

Author: Reading the intro paragraph now made me realize it can be a lot simpler than that. I'll update it to something much more simple.

## Prerequisites

- A working installation of Octopus or a hosted instance from https://octopus.com.
- An account on the [Pulumi Console](https://app.pulumi.com).
- The latest version of Pulumi. Installation instructions are [here]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install" >}}).
- Setup a new project and [stack]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/stack" >}}) using one of our [Get Started]({{< relref "/docs/get-started" >}}) guides or simply by running [`pulumi new`]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_new.md" >}})
and choosing one of the many templates that are available.

> - A bare repo and set the remote URL to be your GitHub project.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps "A new GitHub repository. (Or any git-based source code provider.)" instead? (Since "bare repo" and "GitHub project" are somewhat unrelated things.)

## Sample Project

For the sake of this walkthrough, we will try to deploy the simple AWS example located [here](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/aws-ts-hello-fargate). The example deploys a containerized Python Flask app on [AWS Fargate](https://aws.amazon.com/fargate/). This example also shows a pattern that is common with Pulumi -- keeping your infrastructure app (Pulumi) with your actual application code, but certainly not necessary. Regardless of how you decide to structure your project, you will need to provide the package to Octopus somehow.

> Alternatively, you can also run `pulumi new [template]` to create a template project.

Reviewer 2: You also mention the ability to run `pulumi new` earlier, so I'd actually just cut this paragraph for clarity. And just have the sample project you link too.

Are there some commands to run to set up this project?

e.g.

```bash
git clone ...
cd aws-ts-hello-fargate

# Create your Pulumi stack.
pulumi stack init ...
```

Author: Yep. Will rephrase this.

Learn more [here]({{< ref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_new.md" >}}).

## Stack and Branch Mappings

> The scripts below act on a hypothetical stack: `homer/acme-org/python-app`.

Reviewer 2: This is confusing because the hypothetical stack here doesn't seem to match the "sample project" from above.

Author: Fixed.

You can create a new stack by running [`pulumi stack init`]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_stack_init.md" >}}) if you have already created a project.

**Note**: The names used above are purely for demonstration purposes only.
You may choose a naming convention that best suits your organization.

## PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN

> To login non-interactively in to the CLI, you will need to set the env var `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` as a [project variable](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process/variables). To create a new access token, go the [Access Tokens](https://app.pulumi.com/account/tokens) page on the Pulumi Console.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` section go under `Octopus Setup`, since setting the env var is specific to the Octopus project's configuration? (And we can probably ignore mentions the "to login non-interactivly to the CLI", since the user already completed the `stack init` step earlier?

Author: Done. Moved it and also re-phrased it.

## Octopus Setup

> ### Infrastructure

Reviewer 2: This section, and the H3s below ("Infrastructure", "Project", and "Packages") could use a little more explanation.

The goal here is to introduce the Octopus CI concepts and then explain how they map to Pulumi concept right?

So for example, under "Project", maybe explain how that would be the thing that runs the Pulumi stack update or something? Seems like we can make this clearer by associating Octopus terms with their Pulumi concepts.

Author: I changed these sections to add some more information.

In a typical scenario where Pulumi is creating your cloud infrastructure, you will only need to a worker that can run the Pulumi CLI commands against your code package.

### Project

A project represents the application being deployed. A project uses versioned packages (which you will read about in the following section) and uses variables during the deployment process.

### Packages

Packages can be your source code bundled-up in one of the [supported formats](https://octopus.com/docs/packaging-applications#supported-formats). They can also just be a handlful of scripts that you may want to use during your deployment process.

In order to create a package, Octopus offers several ways that you can integrate into your existing build (CI) system. [Learn more](https://octopus.com/docs/packaging-applications/create-packages) about the options available to you for packaging your apps.

For Pulumi apps, you can simply package the entire Pulumi app and extract the bundled package onto a worker where the Pulumi CLI can access them.

## Create and configure a project

> A [deployment process](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-process) is comprised of the following steps:

Reviewer 2: Nit: `An [Octopus deployment process](...)` might be clearer, IMHO.

Author: I added more clarification to these sections based on your previous [comment](https://github.com/pulumi/docs/pull/1823#discussion_r332128032).

- Select the **Run a Script**, fill out the following fields as follows:
  - **Script Source**: Inline source code
  - **Inline Source Code**: (click the **Bash** radio button)
  ```bash
    # Remove any previously extracted packages
    rm -rf /tmp/pulumi-app
    # Use the pre-defined variable to get the extracted path for the package.
    extractedPath=$(get_octopusvariable "Octopus.Action.Package[aws-typescript].ExtractedPath")
    # Copy the extracted package contents to another directory that can be accessed by other steps.
    cp -r "${extractedPath}/infrastructure/" /tmp/pulumi-app
    cd /tmp/pulumi-app
  ```

#### Run Pulumi

- Click on **Add Step** again and search for `Pulumi` from the **Community Library Steps**.
- Fill out the configuration as appropriate for your stack.
  - For example, in the following screenshot the stack configuration is overridden using a
file that is created in a separate **Run a script** step.
  - It is not required that you override stack configuration. It was done here purely for demonstrating
  the options you have with the Pulumi Step Template.

> ![Add Package Reference](/images/docs/guides/continuous-delivery/octopus-deploy/run-pulumi.png)

Reviewer 2: Nit: Can we put a new line before the image? I wouldn't bet my life that some minor tweak to the Markdown rendering library we use might mistakenly try to put the image within the bulleted list or something.

Author: Done.
